.TH objdump86 1 "May, 2006"
.BY Shyamal Prasad <shyamal@member.fsf.org>
.nh
.SH NAME
objdump86, size86, nm86 \- Examine object, archive or executable files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI objdump86 
.RI [ file ...]
.PP
.B size86 
.RI [ file ...]
.PP
.BI nm86 
.RI [ file ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
These commands are used to examine the contents of object files. They
may also be used to examine archive or executable files. When archive
files are examined each module in the archive will be processed in
sequence.
.PP
.B nm86 
prints the symbol table in each of the specified files.
.PP
.B size86
displays a summary of the sizes of the segments in each of the files.
.PP
.B objdump86
decodes and displays the contents of the object files specified. This
includes the section headers, symbols tables, segment sizes, and
segment contents.
.SH OPTIONS
The programs are not designed to accept any options.
.PP
It should be noted that all three of
.BR objdump86 ,
.BR size86 ,
and 
.B nm86
are implemented as links to the same executable file (called
.BR objdump86
in the source distribution). The result of running this executable is
determined by the file name actually used to execute it.
.PP
It is possible to force a specific behavior irrespective of the
invocation file name using one of the options below
.TP
.B -s
Behave like
.BR size86 .
.TP
.B -n
Behave like
.BR nm86 .
.SH RESTRICTIONS
These commands are intended for use only with the Dev86/ELKS
toolchain.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR as86 (1),
.BR bcc (1),
.BR ld86 (1)
.SH AUTHORS
.BR objdump86 ,
.BR size86 ,
and
.B nm86
\(co 1999 Greg Haerr <greg@censoft.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
The manual page was written for Debian GNU/Linux, \(co 2006 Shyamal
Prasad <shyamal@member.fsf.org>. It is distributed under the terms of
the GNU General Public License version 2 (or any later version
released by the Free Software Foundation).
